today most families enjoy the benefits
of a central air system in their home
these systems keep us cool in the summer
and warm in the winter
what most people don't know is that the
systems that heat and cool our homes can
also spread airborne contaminants
throughout the house bacteria mold
viruses and allergens like pollen are
carried by the air into the air system
because the system constantly
recirculates the air in your home these
airborne pathogens can spread throughout
the entire house some are only annoying
others can make you sick if left
unchecked these contaminants can clog
your air handling system and damage it
then the system itself becomes a
breeding ground for germs the
Environmental Protection Agency lists
indoor air quality is one of the top
five environmental health risks today
isn't there's some effective way to make
the air my family breathe safer the
answer is light safe effective
germicidal ultraviolet light for over
100 years scientists have known of the
germ killing power of UV light it's used
in a wide variety of applications
reducing the need for dangerous
chemicals
now this wonder of nature is available
to you in the fresh air UV light of
germicidal UV light products
what is ultraviolet light can I see it
visible light is just a part of the
spectrum low frequency infrared light
lies beyond the red edge of the visible
spectrum and is experienced as heat high
frequency ultraviolet light lies beyond
the purple edge of the visible spectrum
the particular range of UV light that
kills germs is called UVC light there
are a lot of air cleaning products out
there and most of them don't work very
well if UV disinfection really effective
how does UV light actually kill germs
for years UV light has been used in
hospitals and laboratories to disinfect
the air operating rooms work surfaces
and instruments that are
most to hazardous biological materials
similar technology is used in the food
industry where meat and produce are
exposed to UV light before packaging and
water purification systems large and
small now incorporate the technology UVC
light works by penetrating the cell
walls of microorganisms and smashing the
DNA molecules inside this eliminates the
microorganisms by preventing them from
reproducing in addition some fresh air
UV lamps are made with an optional odor
sanitizing technology or OST segments
built into the glass which emits a
higher frequency of UVC light lamps with
this option not only kill germs but they
destroy a volatile organic compounds or
VOCs which are responsible for cooking
smells pet odors chemical vapors from
new carpet and most other offensive
odors hey that sounds great but how is
the UV system actually installed in my
air handler the systems are installed by
licensed contractors some systems like
blue tube and fresh air UV are installed
near the cooling coils that way the UVC
light shines directly onto the coils
blowers and other components killing
mold and bacteria that grow there this
also makes the air system more efficient
because it's cleaner some other UV
systems like the fresh air UV purity our
whole house air purification systems
these replace your existing air filter
your AC service technician will help you
choose the system that's right for your
home if UV light safe what about our
kids in our pets a UV light system is
safe for everyone in your household the
UV light is mounted inside the air
handler and the germ killing effect is
limited to that immediate area are all
germicidal UV light systems the same who
makes the best the fresh air UV systems
from triatomic environmental are widely
considered to be the best in the
industry
these include blue tube UV fresh air UV
and the new purity whole house UV air
purification system as well as larger
commercial systems
triatomic environmental is a leader in
this field and is constantly improving
their products through a commitment to
research and development and customer
satisfaction it's time for you and your
family to breathe easy in the knowledge
that your health and home are protected
by the power of light
whoosh